Now, as mentioned before,
I did create multiple branches here
so that we can work on a new feature
without directly influencing the existing code
in the main branch,
which often is the branch that is responsible
for the currently published and deployed website,
and we wanna make sure
that we don't accidentally deploy a half-finished feature.
That's why we use a separate branch for that.
So here I am in the feature-restructure branch
as you can tell if I run git branch.
And now I wanna apply some changes,
some changes which I prepared in advance.
You find a new index.html file attached
and you can simply take the content
of that attached file
and replace your index.html content with that content.
It's relatively similar
but it has a slightly different structure
and a new paragraph with some links
that allow you to dive deeper into Git.
That's one thing that changed.
You also find a new styles.css file attached
and you should also take the content of that
and replace your styles.css file content with that.
It simply adds this link styling.
That's the only thing that's changed.
With that, if you would view this page,
it looks like that in the browser
but that's not too important right now.
Instead, this is the new feature we're working on.
And here I did it all in one step.
If this would be a more complex project
and a more complex feature,
we might, of course, work multiple days on that new feature
and we might be creating multiple commits along the way,
step by step.
Here it's just one commit,
which I wanna add, which includes all these changes
to styles.css and index.html.
Therefore I'll stage all my files
that changed by running git add dot.
Alternatively as you learned,
you can also target them separately like this
but this is quicker.
And then I commit them
and I'll say added links and restructured page.
Now we can see if we run git log
that we've got this new commit here
in our feature-restructure branch.
Here we can also already see
that the main branch is one commit behind.
It still has the added logo and styling commit
as the latest commit.
So only the feature-restructure branch
has this new commit.
If we therefore actually check out the main branch again
by simply running git checkout main,
you will see that the code changes.
All our changes are gone
but they're not gone because we deleted
or reverted them.
Instead they're still there
in their commit in a different branch.
But here in this branch, the main branch,
we don't have those other commits,
we don't have that latest commit.
In that main branch, however,
we can continue our work
and we could work on a bug fix.
For example, we might want to add an exclamation mark
to the title here.
So here in the main branch, I can then also add a new commit
by staging all files.
In this case, only the index.html file
but still git add dot can always be used.
And here I'll say changed title.
With that, I got a new commit here
in the main branch, which is not part
of that other branch we worked in a couple of seconds ago.
But now let's say we're done.
We fixed some bugs here in the main branch
and we also added this new feature
in the feature-restructure branch.
If I quickly check out that other branch again,
you see that there the exclamation mark is gone
because that change was only applied and committed
in the main branch.
But we do have that restructured code
and those extra links here.
If we now want to merge those changes
from that feature branch into the main branch
because we're ready to publish these changes let's say,
we can move to that main branch
and use the merge command provided by Git.
So for that, let me shrink this a little bit
and watch this body code here.
We simply run git merge
and now we specify the name of the branch
that contains the changes
that we wanna merge into this main branch.
And what this merge command will do then
is it will simply take the latest commit
and all the other commits up to that commit
in that other branch.
So in the feature-restructure branch in this case here
and append them to the commits in this main branch.
And Git will automatically try
to resolve any conflicts it might encounter.
For example, here in both branches,
we added that the index.html file.
But Git will be able to resolve such basic conflicts.
If I hit Enter here,
it therefore performs this merge
and you see that it did indeed change the structure
and add those links here
but it also kept the exclamation mark in the title.
That's what I meant.
We had two commits in different branches
that changed the same file
but Git was able to resolve those problems.
Now, what you also see
is that we have to add a message here,
a commit message because this merge
is technically a brand new commit that's created here.
And therefore we have to add a message,
a description to that commit.
We get a default description here,
which says that we merged this.
And we can simply accept this message
by saving this message as it is suggested
and how saving works again will depend
on which editor you're using here in the terminal
and which operating system you're using.
Here I confirmed this
and now we're getting a little summary of the merging.
It was merged automatically
for a more complex merge
as you might have to do some manual conflict resolving
but that's something that's covered in greater detail
in our Git course.
Here it was merged automatically.
We see which strategy was used by Git
because it knows different strategies
but that's also not too important here.
And we see which files were changed.
We see that a lot of additions were made to index.html
and some things were removed
and we had some additions for lines that were added
to be precise that were applied to styles.css.
We also get a summary here.
Now as a result, we have our exclamation mark in the title
and we have our links and the changed structure
in the body element of index.html.
If we now run git log again,
we also see that here we have the commit
that performed the merge.
And we get the other commits from both the main branch,
this commit here where we changed the title,
and from the feature-restructure branch
where we added those links.
And that's, by the way, still the latest state
of that feature-restructure branch,
as is indicated by this marker here.
Since we merged feature-restructure into the main branch,
the feature-restructure branch was not changed.
There this exclamation mark won't be there,
this exclamation mark in the title I mean
because we merged feature-restructure into main,
not the other way around.
We could have done that but we didn't.
And indeed, if I quickly go
to the feature-restructure branch here,
you will notice that there we have the same state as before.
Links and changed structure are there
but the exclamation mark is missing.
But that's exactly the idea.
Now we merged those changed into main
and since we're done with our work on this new feature,
we could, of course, therefore simply get rid
of that feature-restructure branch
by running git branch -D feature-restructure.
That deletes this branch,
which we don't need anymore.
Of course, the changes which we merged are still there
because we did merge those commits into main.
And that's how we can work with different branches
to work on different features simultaneously,
only combining these features when we're ready for it.